Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Pune Metro) Ticketing is now enabled on the ONDC Network. This integration enables Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Pune Metro to offer open ticketing in Pune, PCMC Metropolitan region, providing seamless access to ticketing on customer-facing (Buyer apps) applications through the ONDC Network.
The Buyer Apps would need to acknowledge and agree to comply with the following terms and conditions to be able to sell Pune Metro tickets:

Terms and Conditions for Buyer Apps

1.	All applications (Buyer Apps) that are interested in offering Pune Metro tickets through their platform/application need to mandatorily onboard the ONDC Network and be compliant with the ONDC Protocol. No Buyer App is permitted to sell the Pune Metro tickets in any other manner through ONDC network without approval of Pune Metro.
2.	The Pune Metro or Buyer App May offer some discount on the tickets booked online.
3.	Buyer Apps, if they decide to charge additional charges from the Commuters over and above the ticket price quoted by the Seller (Pune Metro) as a customer convenience fee, should transparently display it to the commuter as ‘App Convenience Fee’.
4.	Buyer Apps could, as per their business strategy, choose to offer reduced or zero convenience fees, under title ‘App Discount’ in order to attract Consumers. However, in such case no convenience fee charges shall be reimbursed by Pune Metro.
5.	Buyer Apps could even choose to offer additional discounts on top of the ticket price to customers as part of customer acquisition, at their own expense. However, in all cases, the full ticket amount, less the discount offered as per Condition 2 above, must be settled with the Pune Metro without any deductions.
6.	While the Buyer App may use any Payment Gateway from those onboard the ONDC platform, the convenience fee, including MDR charges of the Payment Gateway, would not be reimbursed by Pune Metro under any circumstances. They shall be a part of the App Convenience Fee, if the Buyer App decides to levy the same.
7.	The Pune Metro reserves the right to change any of these Terms & Conditions or fix certain limits for Convenience fees in future as and when applicable.
8.	As per extant RBI Regulations, the ticket transaction amount collected by the Buyer apps is to be settled to the Pune Metro Settlement account on a T+1 basis for all successful transactions.
9.	All Buyer Apps shall initiate reconciliation Application Programming Interface (API) call on T+1 basis along with Settlement Reference Number (UTR) with Seller. If T+1 is not a Business Day (Banking Holiday), the Buyer App will trigger the reconciliation API call and settle the funds on the next business working day of T+1.
10.	The Pune Metro would also use a dashboard provided by ONDC or its representative to record at the seller's side all the tickets sold by each of the buyer apps. The buyer apps shall be asked to deposit the amount shown by the dashboard in the event of any reconciliation discrepancy.
11.	Buyer Apps must ensure that all customer data collected during the purchase of Pune Metro tickets are handled in compliance with the applicable data privacy laws, including but not limited to the Information Technology Act, 2000, Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023, where applicable. The Buyer App is responsible for ensuring the security of payment and personal data of customers using industry¬ standard encryption and security protocols.
12.	The Buyer Apps would additionally comply with the refund and cancellation policies of the Pune Metro.
13.	All Buyer Applications (Buyer Apps) interested in offering Pune Metro tickets to commuters are strictly prohibited from displaying advertisements on Pune Metro tickets or during the entire ticketing process, including booking, entry, and exit. If any Buyer App wishes to engage in commercial advertising, prior written permission from Pune Metro is mandatory.
14.	Where recourse to a Court is to be made in respect of any matter, the Courts at Pune, Maharashtra shall have exclusive jurisdiction to try all disputes.
15.	 Delay in settlement of Fare Box revenues shall attract a Levy of interest at annual rate of 24% for the delay period which needs to be paid to Maha Metro to avoid further penal charges.
16.	 If any buyer application repeatedly fails to do settlements within stipulated time, the same shall be disabled/terminated for Pune Metro ticketing.
17.	 Buyer applications hereby agree to indemnify Maha Metro against its respective parts in case of  breach/default of the respective part of the works of any liabilities sustained by them.  No claims arising out of such indemnity will be entertained by Maha Metro
